If I refresh this page,
it will take a second, right?
So we're gonna talk a little
bit about CloudFront functions,
which is the last little piece here.
And kind of like how
they're kind of different.
The kinda core piece with CloudFront
functions is that, they are much simpler.
They can't call out to external things.
They have a much shorter
time they're allowed to run,
they seem worse in every way,
except like the number of concurrent ones
that you can run is way higher, right?
And so if you're really super
worried about the throughput and
you're hitting the limitations
of lambda at edge.
Then Cloud run functions are highly
optimized versions of that,
that can do less, but faster and
more and stuff along those lines.
That actually lives in cloud front,
not in lambda.
And you can go in here and
see that as well.
And here we can go create a function,
now the other caveat where I'm
probably gonna get burned in a second.
Is where you can mix and match.
Is problematic like, if you one of the
other reasons you might wanna stick with
a Lambda edge function in your
cloud front distribution.
Is because you can only have one for
every each viewer request
viewer response,
origin request origin response.
But sometimes you'd be like well
you can't have a viewer request for
one and a viewer response for the other.
All right, so l probably deploying
both will be slightly problematic, but
we'll play with that in a second.
So here, we'll say like.
Smaller image.
And we'll create the function
while at least have it, so
we can swap it out in a second.
This looks relatively the same.
Now you might be like,
I'm not writing bar.
Am not doing it.
You can't make me.
I won't do it, you will do it because
it won't work if you try to use cost or
lat, so like that's the thing
that we need to keep in mind.
It's got a bunch of limitations it can
only use certain limited subset of
JavaScript which is you
kind of have to look at.
It's got a few you can't pull in
any other libraries it's got a few
things to hashing Stuff along those
lines for parsing query strings.
It's got I think most of the Array
prototype methods that you might want in
modern JavaScript not the hot ones but
like I think you've got like includes at
least right so you have to do like
index up and stuff along those lines.
You get no file it's not running Node
effectively is what you need to know.
It is running a JavaScript like
environment where you have access to
basically yeah,
these global functions, that's it.
These global constants, that's it.
And like I said, just a few of
the given the data-types a few of
the array methods to me a six,
one for me a seven and
then mostly you're stuck with is five for
the rest of it, right?
So just keep that in mind and this is
one we definitely want to test early and
often, but like we can theoretically
you can do stuff yeah it's
like yeah like you have applied
you don't have anything that like.
So don't try to use the spread operator,
don't try to be fancy at all
you will break everything.
But I said, yeah,
again what you lose in flexibility,
you gain in performance in this case.
Cool, so we have this one kind
of in place here as you can see.
And do you have the code from before?
No, let's do it, we'll do alive
Live coding I think I told you it
could break should be fun, right?
So here we've got your turn a request and
response.
We're probably not gonna be
able to play this one just yet,
but you could say something like nope,
see I started typing comps,
you are laughing [LAUGH]
Our request equals event.request and
then we'll say if.
Request.uri.
Rewrite that.
And return the request.
This is similar to what we were talking
about with the client side routes.
Hey, if it is notes, or
whatever rewrite it index that HTML.
We'll let the cashing happen,
we will tell everyone was successful and
then we can have errors
from a real bad round.
Now I'm pretty sure,
if I hit save, I can hit Test.
And I can kind of like show you like
what would happen in that sense.
So we will say viewer request, actually.
So one fewer requests, which,
so let's try it out real quick.
I'm pretty sure, yeah,
I already have a function there as well.
So we can say here's the request.
Cool, everything kind of goes through with
the output in this case, so that's good.
I'm pretty sure I can't save it though
right now because it's gonna tell me you
can't do it if you have the lambda at edge
of that one did successfully published
that's cool.
So it was not that conflict there's a
table you can look at which functions play
with which lambda edge ones
during this from memory,
I don't have the table memorized.
I've read it 100 times read this morning.
Still don't have it memorized, but
we have that kind of in place.
Now we still have to check to see if it
works because that went more smoothly than
I was hoping.
But let's go back,
see your behaviors inside of that area
right there where we wanna edit it.
We published it, but
we didn't set it in this case, awesome.
So I think I want this as
a viewer request actually.
So we'll save the changes,
that might take a second to propagate, but
you can see it's currently deploying.
So our last kind of thing is let's
just check to see that should
still be deploying, but
this is the ability we're talking about.
This would work with a client side routes.
We'll also work if we saw earlier that
we could see like CloudFront will tell
if they are on a phone versus a smart TV
versus a desktop computer like maybe we
don't need to send them.
It's weird because phones are getting
big enough and the screens are so
dense that like, this is probably
less true as time goes on.
But maybe you don't need to send them a
like 8k resolution image for their phone.
For the next year or two until Android and
iOS phones have like 8k screens on them
somehow, because physics doesn't exist.
So I think a viewer request was right.
I was kinda live coding that while I
was talking, but let's go ahead and
check it out.
So if it's Beatles or JPEG,
we should swap it out.
There we go, take a look at that one
to see if it's actually getting hit or
it could also have not
have fully deployed yet.
So that's also a fun idea as well but
the idea of like you can look at
the URI rewrite it to another one as you
check the origin source and it will still
work allows us to have that 200 for
known client side routes different images.
The possibilities it's definitely one
of those things where it's like there's
the initial set that are like common which
is rewriting those URI so on so forth.
Then there's a part of kind of specific
your application which will hit you
in a week and stuff along those as
long as we're possibly in six months.
Now you're, we could just solve for
that doing this and
that's kinda the major point that
I want to get is that like you can
program the CDN to do
what it is that you want.
So those are all the pieces
that we put in place.
So when we're building the system that
like I kind of joked I think during
a break has bumps in the road
when you're implementing it.
But once you get all these pieces
in place, your headers are secure,
your client side routes are in place
you're distributed along the world like.
This even like we were
talking about it and
kind of live doing it now when
once you get that process down.
You can basically own this relatively
inexpensive infrastructure that is
a highly perform application platform for
getting your code out to your customers.
That solves a lot of the core problems and
again, I mentioned a second ago but
we talked about before like It is a lot of
a set it and forget it kind of thing too,
right?
A lot of infrastructure I no longer
work at the company, right, and
we iterated on a time we
didn't do is all at once.
We started out with just our index.html
was still in the rails app at first,
cuz it was being served by rails.
And then the next version of the app, a
year later, when we could kind of move it
out to a fully React app,
then we move the index html to CloudFront.
That's only had to worry
about the invalidations.
Then later we've split into multiple
teams, and we actually use the lambda
edge to say, okay, in our we use
build code instead of GitHub actions.
But like on every pull request,
move version of that app into
a directory inside of a bucket, so
we could have a staging environment for
every single pull request.
So that different teams could test their
code independently would then have all
the test run on emergent
domain before it got deployed.
So a lot of the stuff we incremented
slowly over time, but as we tried out
different things, kind of just set it,
put it in place and forgot about it.
I'm gonna see if my thing deployed yet
And if I got it right.
Definitely deployed.
All right, let's see what we got I go into
Chrome I can debug it a little bit better.
So it's a 200.
There's no response, so
I definitely mess something up.
Give me a second, I'll go take a look and
then we'll do some questions and
then we'll hopefully, and on a high note
or you'll watch me look at it again.
Stare at it, squint, find out.
Did I use a concert?
It didn't blow up.
So I definitely didn't use a concert or
a lead or some kind of JavaScript in
the last five years, but
we'll go take a look in a second.
Let me just check the kind
of previous version as well,
the other interesting thing that you
can do with these is let's say you
don't wanna play an entire back end.
But like, course, for
an API you want to hit.
It's technically a server,
right, that no j is running.
You could also rewrite the headers and
do stuff along those lines if
you're just trying to hit an API.
But like you have course blocking around
as well, there's like, again, these small
little things that you can do that kind of
add up to solve problems is super useful.
All right, so we go into my function,
let's see what we got.
All right, so everything worked,
just not the way that I wanted to.
That's why I was getting a blank page,
because it was sending
a blank 200 status code.
Apparently, I just did not
save that previous version.
And so, the code was working.
It just wasn't the code that I wanted,
the other
fun fact you can have multiple cloud fund
distributions pointing at the same bucket,
maybe you call one staging hypothetically?
So take that code from earlier,
that was the code we wrote together.
Save the changes.
You know what I did?
I probably went directly to test.
And then I went to Publish.
And I didn't hit that save button and at
no point did it go like you have something
different in the editor than
what you plan on publishing.
All right, so that should go out.
Can I get like?
It's up there.
There's a banner.
I make sure my browser cache isn't part
of the problem to bring this into Chrome.
There it is.
There's my smaller picture of the Beatles,
right?
So this one on the fly,
we rewrote the image to pick
up a picture of Oasis instead,
don't ask me.
So yeah, we can rewrite stuff,
render different resources.
So not only is this a really
angry in that picture?
Not only this is a different file,
we rewrote the request and
got a different resource, a smaller
resource based on whatever you need to do,
or whatever you wanna do.
You can program all the things redirect
stuff be bet basically like redirect
the flow of time and request and
change stuff on the fly.
Have a lot of stuff you would normally
need to spin up a server for,
accessible to you as a front end engineer.
And not actually the nice part is,
again, once you get that stuff in place,
the updating security patches,
all that stuff are handled for
you by Amazon, right?
So now you can have a whole bunch of
functionality that you might have.
One of the places I've used
this in other projects is,
sometimes I don't get
the API's that I want.
And so you can kind of move some of
that logic to kind of normalize and
flatten your API's, and
doing a client side that can also kind
of live kind of on that or just one.